[MUSIC]
The second two formulas we will
look at focus on loans and
analyzing different components of loans.
Loans have four core components.
Rate, number of payments, present value
of the loan, and the payment amount.
We can use different formulas to
calculate the missing component,
assuming we have three
of the four components.
Today we will review two of them.
The first problem states,
calculate the monthly payment required to
pay down student loan within five years.
I frequently see people using this
formula in both a business context and
a personal context to quickly
calculate payment of loan, and
get an understanding of
the affordability of that loan.
First, we have a yearly rate of 3.52% and
the loan is paid monthly.
Therefore to get
the monthly interest rate,
we are going to divide C31 by
C34 the frequency, to get 0.29%.
The interest rate required for
the formula needs to be the interest
rate affecting each period,
and that's why we divided.
Second, we will calculate
the number of payments.
It's a five year loan,
paid monthly or 12 times per year.
I will multiply C33 by C34 to get 60.
Notice, I've used a formula here instead
of hard coding to increase flexibility.
Now, we have all the required information,
so we can begin to use a payment
function to calculate monthly payments.
I will type =PMT to bring up the formula.
The first input is the rate,
so I will select C32.
The second is the number of payments,
so I will select C35.
And finally I'm going to select
the present value of my loan or
the total loan amount, C36.
When I hit Enter, I will have a total
monthly loan payment of 1820.
Now please try question 2B
to calculate the semiannual payment for
a business loan.
Notice the last box to
populate total interest paid.
Think about the difference of our loan
payments versus the total value of
the loan.
Give it a shot, and good luck.
[MUSIC]